Alert suppression on query type rules (#2778)
elastic/security-docs: docs/detections/alert-suppression.asciidoc

[[alert-suppression]]
== Suppress detection alerts

.Requirements and notices
[sidebar]
--
Alert suppression requires a https://www.elastic.co/pricing[Platinum or higher subscription].

preview::[]
--

> Alert suppression allows you to reduce the number of repeated or duplicate detection alerts created by a custom query type detection rule each time the rule runs. 

Author: I usually prefer to use the longer forms in opening paragraphs like this, to help establish which rules and alerts the topic is talking about. We can omit "type" here, though.

> Normally, when a rule matches multiple source events, multiple alerts are created, one for each event. With alert suppression configured, matching events are grouped by a specified field, and only one alert will be created for each group of events per rule execution. You can also specify multiple fields to group events by unique combinations of values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Normally, when a rule matches multiple source events, multiple alerts are created, one for each event. When alert suppression is configured, matching events are grouped by a specified field, and only one alert will be created for each group of events per rule execution. You can also specify multiple fields to group events by unique combinations of values.
```

Author: Blending the two edits:
```suggestion
Normally, when a rule matches multiple source events, multiple alerts are created, one for each event. When alert suppression is configured, matching events are grouped by a specified field, and only one alert is created for each group per rule execution. You can also specify multiple fields to group events by unique combinations of values.
```

> Suppressed alerts are indicated in the Alerts table and the alert details flyout, and you can view the original events for suppressed alerts by investigating the alert in Timeline.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Suppressed alerts are indicated in the Alerts table and the alert details flyout, and you can view the events associated with suppressed alerts by investigating the alert in Timeline.
```

> NOTE: Alert suppression is not available for Elastic prebuilt rules. If you want to suppress alerts for a prebuilt rule, you can duplicate it, then configure alert suppression on the duplicated rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Alert suppression is not available for Elastic prebuilt rules. However, if you want to suppress alerts for a prebuilt rule, you can duplicate it, then configure alert suppression on the duplicated rule.
```

=== Configure alert suppression

You can configure alert suppression when you create or edit a <<create-custom-rule,custom query rule>>. When configuring the rule type (the *Define rule* step for a new rule, the *Definition* tab for an existing rule), enter one or more field names in *Suppress Alerts By*. Configure other rule settings, then save and enable the rule.

TIP: Use the *Rule preview* before saving the rule to visualize how alert suppression will affect the alerts created, based on historical data.

=== Confirm suppressed alerts

> The {security-app} has several indicators of whether a detection alert was created using alert suppression, and how many duplicate alerts were suppressed.

Reviewer 3: We also have the `kibana.alert.suppression.docs_count` field available to add as a column in the alerts table.

Author: Thanks for reminding me of that field; added a bullet for it below

> The {security-app} has several indicators of whether a detection alert was created using alert suppression, and how many duplicate alerts were suppressed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The {security-app} has several indicators of whether a detection alert was created despite alert suppression, and how many duplicate alerts were suppressed.
```
Seems odd to say an alert was created using alert suppression, since suppression reduces the number of alerts. I think it gets the point across though, and I'm not sure "despite" is more clear, so feel free to leave it as is.

* *Alerts* table — Icon in the *Rule* column. Hover to display the number of suppressed alerts:
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/suppressed-alerts-table.png[Suppressed alerts icon and tooltip in Alerts table,75%]

* Alert details flyout — *Insights* section:
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/suppressed-alerts-details.png[Suppressed alerts Insights section in alert details flyout,75%]

=== Investigate events for suppressed alerts

> With alert suppression, detection alerts aren't created for the grouped source events, but you can still retrieve the events for further analysis or investigation. Do one of the following to open Timeline with the original events from both the created alert and the suppressed alerts:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With alert suppression, detection alerts aren't created for the grouped source events, but you can still retrieve the events for further analysis or investigation. Do one of the following to open Timeline with the events associated with both the created alert and the suppressed alerts:
```

Author: IMO "original" is helpful in distinguishing the events, but I like the clarity of "associated with"
```suggestion
With alert suppression, detection alerts aren't created for the grouped source events, but you can still retrieve the events for further analysis or investigation. Do one of the following to open Timeline with the original events associated with both the created alert and the suppressed alerts:
```
